---
layout: post
title:      "Why I chose to change careers and become a software engineer."
date:       2020-04-04 16:16:34 -0400
permalink:  why_i_chose_to_change_careers_and_become_a_software_engineer
---


I was teaching 2nd grade at a wonderful school that had amazing leadership. Those of you in the education realm know exactly how important good, accountable and supportive leadership is. I had very supportive co-workers too. The entire school was and still is filled with amazing people; people who really understood what it means to be a pro. I grew more professionally over three years at that job than any other professional experience I’ve had. I can say all of that and yet, as the middle of this school year approached, I knew something had to change. I loved being with my students and working for/with such wonderful and purposeful people. I also knew that I wasn’t going to make teaching, at least at the elementary grades level, my career. Two big reasons were my social anxiety and emotional self-care. I realized that I was pouring so much into my students that I was, too often, coming home emotionally unavailable to my partner and my children. 

I decided to resign before the holiday break giving my leadership more time to fill my role. At that point, I did not have clarity about my next adventure. I had a few ideas in mind but first I needed to take some time for myself to really reflect, unpack and learn from my time as a teacher. When I taught, I would sometimes think about how much time I could save on grading, parent communication, data collection and interpretation, and other projects if I had the right tech. What if I could help develop some apps for teachers, I thought. Growing up I had always had an interest in computers. As I child, I would like to build them. Later as an adult professional, I became very interested in using them to help me be as efficient with my time as possible. I absolutely love using technology to make my life more streamlined. This allows me to have more quality time with my family and explore some other hobbies and interests for myself. Plus, it’s just fun to use tech! I thought coding might be a good fit for many reasons. During my downtime, I decided to attend a weekend coding workshop. 

I’m very happy I decided to attend the coding workshop. It was my first real taste of coding and the tech industry. I learned my personality, that I mentioned in the first paragraph to some degree, fits nicely into programming culture. I fell in love with creating programs with code. I saw myself as a software engineer working from almost anywhere, feeling like I belong to the culture, being proud of my creations, coming up with my own apps, teaching my children how to code and earning more than I could ever dream of as a teacher. I am excited and determined to continue learning different languages. I  can’t wait to feel the confidence that comes with months of practice.
